hello and welcome to another pic of the
week comic book review this week I
enjoyed quite a bit of the books I
picked up but nothing else this week
impressed me more than the all-new
Scarlet Spider number one written by
Christopher Yost with artwork by Ryan
Stegman the prospect of bringing back
the Scarlet Spider is undoubtedly a
controversial one a lot of fans who grew
up reading the spider-man comics of the
90s have a nostalgic connection to Ben
Riley and his infamous hoodie while
others despise the stories the character
was featured in during that time and
would be happier if the Scarlet Spider
was never seen or heard from ever again
I leaned a bit more towards the side of
the fans who strongly dislike the Clone
Saga era of spider-man's history because
Ben Riley's appearances in the comics
were over by the time I got into the
medium so I had no nostalgic connection
when reading those stories and I think
the hoodie costume makes Ben look like a
90s hipster I probably would have
laughed at anyone who would have
suggested that I would have bought into
the idea of a new Scarlet Spider book
let alone pick it for my pick of the
week this week for Marvel's credit
however they did a lot to make me
curious enough about this book to pick
it up I've always thought the idea of
Cain being Peter Parker who had not
learned the with great power comes great
responsibility lesson was an interesting
one I also really liked the recent fear
itself' spider-man miniseries written by
Chris Yost and Marvel has been
surprising me a lot lately with the new
books they're coming out with I never
really expected to like the new ultimate
spider-man venom as a superhero the tone
shift in daredevil or even a miniseries
focusing solely on carnage but Marvel
has blown away my expectations
completely with all of those books so I
was a bit more willing to at least give
this first issue a try I can completely
understand anyone's reservations about
reading this I had the same thoughts as
you going in but my curiosity got the
better of me and I'm very glad it did
this book sets up a very interesting
narrative thread that grabbed me right
from the beginning of this
as I kind of said before Cain has always
been an example of the nature versus
nurture psychological concept in
spider-man's world Cain is Peter Parker
with the environment Peter would have
found himself in without on my Uncle Ben
Peter and Cain are both orphans
difference being Peter retained the
relatives around him who loved and cared
for him raising him to become the great
man that he used today Cain never had
that he was birthed by a madman science
experiment and was thrown out into the
streets to figure out the world in
Society for himself he was never taught
what the concept of responsibility meant
and when he came to kind of understand
what it was he undervalued it because he
was a dying man why should one take
responsibility for one's actions if they
don't have enough time left in their
existence to see these responsible
choices affected their or anyone else's
lives Cain never expected to have to pay
for the choices he made so he became an
instrument of his own vengeance
attempting to right the wrongs that had
been done upon him at the beginning of
the story we see Cain attempting to
start his life anew interrupting a human
trafficking exchange so he can steal the
money the benefactors are paying to the
smugglers run away to Mexico and start
his life all over again
he wants to kill the thugs and leave the
people being sold as prostitutes and
laborers to their fate but something
holds him back he feels obligated to
help and he doesn't know why Cain now
knows that because he's no longer about
to die at any moment his choices have
weight meaning and unforeseen
consequences he now has ample
opportunity to do something good with
his life and can turn his back on these
people just like everyone excluding
Peter Parker has turned their backs on
him for his entire life throughout the
story he struggles with the notion of
what his new life means resisting the
urge to put on a costume and fight for
the safety of the innocent he feels as
if doing something like that with his
life would be a waste because there's no
tangible reward he dreams of buying a
beach in Mexico and getting drunk every
day he hasn't yet come to learn or
understand why Peter Parker does what he
does this seems to be what Yost is
setting up to be the major theme of the
ongoing story Cain is coming to
understand what responsibility truly
means and what it means to be a hero I
was really happy to see Cain's story of
redemption handled in such a way
Yost could have just hit the ground
running and explained a way that
had an epiphany that put him on a newly
altruistic path but he realized that
cane learning the meaning of
responsibility mirrors Peters origin I
was told so long ago in amazing fantasy
15 and is a story worth telling this
issue hits all the notes thematically
that make up the best spider-man stories
and I can't wait to see what Yost has in
store for Caine later on Ryan Stegman's
aren't in this book was really pleasing
to me as well he's really good at
drawing the awkward and gawky poses that
come with the territory of drawing those
who wield spider powers but he also gets
the cane as a different character than
Peter Parker completely his cane walks
with a dark and commanding presence his
past as supervillain is evident just in
the way he stands and utilizes his
spider powers I was very glad to see
this distinction made so clearly just in
the artwork alone it really helps in
conveying what kind of character this
guy is even for those who have never
read anything with came in it before
this style is also very reminiscent of
the 90 spider and era which for all of
its terrible writing in my opinion
didn't have terrible artwork he has a
detailed but at the same time cartoonish
style that reminds me a lot of someone
like Todd knocker Mike wore Ringo's
style overall I'd have to say that I was
pleasantly surprised with the Scarlet
Spider number one even though I'm a
gigantic spider-man fan with some
resentment towards the era this book is
so heavily associated with I can't deny
that this is quality storytelling that
hits every note that I could have hoped
it would have hit fanatically we also
once again get a great example of
dramatic storytelling done in the style
of Stan Lee and Steve Ditko sir Lee
spider-man's stories with an adult
character something that Marvel
editorial seems to think is impossible
in relation to Peters character I'm
going to give the Scarlet Spider number
one nine out of ten if you guys have any
questions about the book featured in
this video or my review of it please
leave a comment below video response or
shoot me a private message I'd love to
hear any one's thoughts also if there
was anything released this week that
made you laugh cry excited or rip the
book in half tell me about that as well
as always thanks for watching guys and
I'll see you next time